[MUSIC PLAYING]
The Third Noble
Truth of the Buddha.
Within what is called
devotional tantra,
the universe, the
forms, the experiences,
are all appreciated and
related to as the Mother.
Some of you are familiar
with the terms "Maya"
or the "Holy Spirit."
There is an expression in
this form of devotional tantra
that says either you cover
the Mother with the world
or you cover the
world with the Mother.
If you cover the
Mother with the world,
you are lost in the world.
And a car is a car,
and a television set
is a television set, and anger
is anger, and doubt is doubt,
and a mother and a father
are a mother and a father.
If you cover the world with
the Mother every experience
that you have in
this lifetime is but
another aspect of the Mother.
And in this reality,
you as a seeker
are relating to the
universe as the Mother.
And your relation
is one of learning
to love, feed from,
interact with, consume,
and finally devour the Mother.
The Mother has many faces, the
Virgin Mary, Durga, Lakshmi,
Kali, face after
face of the Mother.
Some are wrathful.
Some are tender.
Some are giving.
As you breathe into your
soul, with each in breath,
you begin to feed
upon the Mother.
All of the sounds you hear
are the Mother, feelings
in your body, the Mother.
All of it has become the
same thing, the Mother.
You drink into your chest.
What comes in is as if it were
a golden mist, a substance.
But the process of incorporating
the universe into yourself
is the process of making
love to, and flowing with,
and drinking from the Mother.
For as you take each
experience in your life
and redefine it as a
form of the Mother,
and then acknowledge, and
honor, and allow its space,
you are slowly consuming
your own attachments
to individual differences.
As it is said, you
are like a candle
in the niche, where the flame
never flickers no matter
how wild the winds blow.
For there is nothing that the
Mother can do that you cannot
consume in love.
This is returning to the flow
with the forms of the universe.
We are now dealing
only with form.
Breathe in all of your thoughts.
Just draw them into your
being, fill with them
as if they all were turning into
a fluid you were filling with.
For that is the
fuel you will use.
You will consume the
Mother to go to the Father.
You will consume the form
to enter into the formless.
You must consume the universe.
For that plane of reality,
where there is only one of us,
you are the universe.
It is the Mother looking at
itself, acknowledge, honor,
love, flow.
Let the breath flow in and out.
And as you take it in, fill with
the experiences of your life.